So the lights are up
and the music is down,
and I think that's my cue to get started.
So this is session 922,
Creating Efficient
Data Models with Core Data.
I'm Melissa Turner.
I'm one of the software
engineers on the Core Data team,
and I'm here to tell you all about how
to make your data models nice and shiny.
During this session,
we're going to do an overview
of some of the basics,
both of Core Data modeling and
relational databases in general.
We're going to walk through a
fairly extensive modeling example,
show you how to take a data set
and put it into a database schema.
We're going to talk a little bit
about some performance issues
that come up when you've got a lot
of data that you need to manage,
and go through a couple of tricks
that will help you do some debugging
on your application once you've
got something that you think you
want to try turning into a real app.
So Core Data, well,
it's technology that has some
very old roots and really,
We have multiple stores in Core Data.
We have an XML store,
we have a binary store,
we support your custom atomic stores.
But conceptually, really,
Core Data was designed to work
around a relational database.
We've made it work with
all of the other stores,
and it works really
well with all of them.
But some of the core concepts,
the entity description,
the property descriptions,
these are from the relational
data modeling world.
Core Data takes care of doing
all of the infrastructure work,
putting stuff into databases,
pulling stuff out, keeping track,
managing relationships.
But there's no way for us to
take away the fact that in
order to do a good model design,
you need to have some awareness
of the underlying technology
you're working with and how to
most efficiently make that work.
And the techniques are
useful across all stores.
Just because I'm talking about
something that's in all of my
examples using a SQLite store,
and we're looking at tables
in a SQLite database,
there's no reason those
wouldn't also apply to an XML or
binary or an in-memory store.
A lot of the same performance
hurdles are in those other stores.
Data modeling basics.
What is data modeling?
It's the art of taking a large blob
of conceptual data and fiddling it
and tweaking it and turning it into
something that's nice and efficient
and can be used to make an application
that's as optimized and quick and
responsive as your user wants it to be.
If you've got a bad data model,
that can really hurt
database performance.
If you've got a good one,
or your application performance,
simply because you're spending
a lot of time doing things you
really don't need to be doing.
Likewise, or inversely,
it can also really help your application
performance when you've got your
schema laid out as neatly as you can.
Your data model is going to
be heavily influenced by your
interface and vice versa.
One of the primary mistakes a lot
of people make is to go off and
do a lot of design at the database
level without ever really thinking
about the application that they're
going to be putting on top of it.
A canonical example of this,
for those of you who are familiar
with the Microsoft world,
is the kitchen sink window
that has everything on it.
Well, one, that's really hard for the
developer or the end user to
figure out what they're supposed
to be focused on in any one place.
And two, it means you have to haul all of
that data out of the database and
put it there in front of the user
who doesn't need 90% of it when
they're looking at that window.
There's two core techniques used
when you're doing data modeling.
There's normalization,
which is all about pushing data out,
and there's denormalization,
which is all about pulling data in.
And we'll go into those
in a bit more depth later.
As for relational databases,
this is pretty much all you
need to know about them.
Relational databases are tables.
They're collections of tables
containing information.
Each table represents one entity,
or as we'll see later,
it can possibly represent
multiple entities.
Each column represents an
attribute on that entity,
and each row represents a
single instance of an object.
In the Core Data case,
each row would represent
one managed object.
That's really all you need
to know about Core Data,
data modeling,
and databases in order to get
some use out of this session.
Up front, I'm going to say this:
There are many right answers.
What does this mean?
Well,
it means that for any given data set,
there's multiple different applications
that can be used and built to handle
and model and manage that data set.
And for each and every single
one of those applications,
the schema may need to be
a little bit different.
You may build an iTunes application
that's focused on managing songs.
You may build one that's
focused on managing albums.
Somebody back there may build one
that's focused on managing artists.
And all of these
has subtle implications as to what
your schema needs to look like,
where the primary entities
in your schema are,
and what the relationships
off them need to be.
As in so many things,
there's probably a few of you
in the audience who are familiar
with data modeling going,
"But, but, but!" Because there's always
the theory and practice bridge.
In theory,
there is actually one perfect model:
purely normalized, shiny, clean,
and completely and utterly
inefficient because every
single table has one column.
And frankly, this means that every single
window you want to load is
going to be a 15-way join,
and that's slow.
The optimal model is clean
and purely normalized.
Normalization is the only strategy
you'll ever hear about in a lot
of relational data modeling books,
and you can forget that.
Really, honestly,
denormalization is where it's at.
It's the useful thing.
It's bringing information
back to where you want it.
There's always a tension.
Normalization, denormalization.
There's a lot of tensions in data
modeling and in coding in general,
I'm sure you're familiar with.
You want to do one thing for efficiency,
and another thing also
has a call on efficiency,
and you have to decide
which one is right for you.
Some rules of thumb.
Design with your interface in mind.
Start building your data model.
What is the main window
in your application?
What data do you want to see there?
Put that down in an entity.
And then build out from there.
Minimize duplication of
data as much as you can.
That's where normalization comes in.
It's all about minimizing
duplication of data for saving space,
for preserving data integrity.
You want to maximize locality data.
That's where denormalization comes in.
You've got more duplicated data,
more risk,
but sometimes it can be faster.
So, as some of you might have guessed,
because I used it as an example earlier,
we're going to work through our
example using a data set involving
a lot of information about songs.
Songs ripped out of my
personal iTunes library,
actually.
So, no criticism of my taste.
As a first pass, because I'm building an
application to manage songs,
this is the root entity
I've come up with.
I thought,
I want a window that can manage songs,
so I'm going to stick
everything on one entity.
What's that going to look
like in the database?
Because a lot of data modeling
starts to make a lot more sense
when you think about what the
tables are going to look like,
what the information in
those tables is going to be.
So our root table is going to be songs.
I've added a few fields,
added a few attributes: albums, artists,
titles, song data.
And the first thing I'd like you
to see when you look at this is
the stuff down in this corner here.
What you'll notice is that I've got
multivalued entries in these tables.
I've got multiple songs
and multiple song data.
If you ever see this in
a relational database,
it's generally a sign that
somebody has done something wrong.
Multivalues are generally a
bad idea because relational
databases are all about searching.
They're about being able
to find field values very,
very quickly.
And by shoving multiple
values into a single field,
you interfere with that.
Every time I want to look for the
song "Vow" off the album "Garbage,"
I'm going to have to go off and do a
substring search in that title field.
And that's going to slow
things down for no good reason.
So I'm going to put, as my first step,
all of those in separate rows.
Now I've got another problem,
which is this block down here.
And this should be one of your first
instincts whenever you're looking
at a table in a relational database.
If you ever see duplicate data,
this is a cue that there
may be room to normalize.
Get rid of duplicate information.
Why do you want to do this?
Well,
the first and most obvious reason is,
well, it saves on space.
Every time I duplicate that string,
I've got another copy of it
sitting down in the database.
I've got another copy of it pulled
up into the Core Data object layer.
For, you know, the string garbage,
that may not be important,
but if I've got the
entire text of my thesis,
that becomes more of a problem
if it's in 10 different places,
20 different places.
There's also a data integrity issue.
And what do I mean by that?
Well, if I've got,
in the case of my example, garbage in
I'm going to show you how to do that.
I'm going to show you how
to do that in a few minutes.
You'll think, "Yeah,
why would that happen?" Well,
iTunes is actually a
great example for this.
There's a certain subset of people
who like to go off and fill CDDB with
random garbage just for fun.
So if I download some
corrupt data from CDDB,
I'm going to have to go off
and change it everywhere.
That's not a huge issue with
a model the size of the one
we're going to be talking about,
but most models really
have more than two,
three, four entities.
Some of them get up to 50, 100,
200 entities.
And it can be hard to track where all of
that duplicate information is unless you
normalize it out and keep it in one spot.
So how do you do that?
What does that really mean?
Well, it means you make a separate table.
And get rid of all the duplicates.
But at this point,
you're probably thinking,
but you've lost something there.
The previous table,
it was very easy to tell
what artist and what song,
or what artist and what
album a given song was from.
You'd just follow across the row,
and there it was.
But we've lost that
relationship information here.
It doesn't exist anymore.
So how do we get that back?
[Transcript missing]
Pessimal choices would be strings,
because you've got a number of,
there's actually a number of
reasons for which strings are bad.
You've got representation issues, EBCD,
ASCII, you've got Unicode issues,
normalization issues.
Floats are bad because, well,
they've also got representation issues.
And byte arrays, well,
they have some of the same problems
with strings where you have to compare
every single byte in the string to
determine if two byte arrays are equal.
We will laugh at you if you basically
send us a problem and are doing this,
and not in a Core Data app,
but in a non-Core Data app.
Don't pick database internal values that
are not guaranteed to remain the same.
Seriously.
Because your relationships will
all get messed up for reasons
you're about to understand.
Relationships in a
relational database are,
describe the link between two tables,
and they're basically, they're key-based.
You take a primary key from one
table and insert it into a database.
You can imagine if the primary
key on one table got changed
because your database went off and
did something behind your back,
all of your relationships
are now messed up.
Don't do that.
So how do we use keys?
How do keys really work?
Well, I need to put a primary
key on one of these tables.
In this case,
I'm going to put it on the albums table,
because there's one album
can have many songs,
and it's easier to do it that way.
So we'll just assign an integer,
one per row on the table.
And we'll assign a foreign key
column over in the other table,
call it Album,
and enter the primary key of
the album that each song is on.
And this way I can go from Album
5 over to the songs table and say,
which songs are on Album 5,
and find those very easily.
So that's a relationship
in a relational database.
And having said all of that,
you can mostly forget about it because
Core Data does all of this for you.
We assign primary keys,
we do all of your foreign key handling,
all of your relationship management,
updates, inserts,
we clean it up if you do deletes.
For those of you who are familiar with
printing out Core Data objects in GDB,
you've probably seen how our
relationships are represented
by NS Managed Objects.
You've got a fault and
it has a relationship,
it's just got a UID,
and that's the UID of the
object at the other end.
the relationship.
So, where are we now?
We had this originally.
This was our original entity.
We've turned it into this.
Now we've got two entities and
a relationship between them.
You can see the relationship here has
One arrow on one end and
two arrows on the other end.
That's the way of specifying that
it's a one-to-many relationship.
So what next?
Where are we going next?
Well,
I said when we first started this up,
started
The duplicate data was a bad thing.
It was always a cue that you wanted
to look at whatever it was you had
and contemplate normalizing it.
And we have more duplicate data here.
This is where I talk about identity.
Duplicate data is really only
bad if it truly is duplicate.
It's two copies of the
same piece of information.
But some information
is duplicate because,
well, there's two copies of
different information that
are coincidentally the same.
For example,
it looks like I have two songs
here whose title is Dare.
But if I go off to Amazon.com
and do a little bit of research,
I'll find out that one of these,
the one that's off the album D-side,
is actually Dare Remix.
Now, changing that, correcting it,
doesn't automatically imply that
I need to correct the other one.
They're actually two separate,
identity separate, pieces of information.
And if you have that kind of a case
where you have information that's
sort of coincidentally the same,
that's not usually the best
case for normalization.
So we're just going to
leave that the way it is.
But there's other interesting
stuff in this table,
and that would be this column.
It looks kind of obscure
to you when you look at it,
because, well, it's just a blob.
It's actually the beginning of
the MP3 that is the song data.
Why is that interesting?
Well,
because when I think of my interface,
my songs interface
that I want to display,
It's not necessary for that interface.
I don't need to load the MP3 data for
a song in order to show somebody that
they have that song in their library.
It's an excellent thing to break out.
This is some other cues for
when you want a normalization.
Duplicates or to push out
extra or expensive information.
It will be data that's not
used in the main interface or
in a lot of cases blob data.
Especially large blob data.
What's large blob data?
Well,
Small blob data is
something like a color,
stuff that's down around a K.
That's actually okay to
have on the main table,
might be worth considering
pushing it out.
If you've got a medium-sized blob,
you pretty much always want
that to be on a separate table,
especially if you don't always need it.
If you've got a large blob,
which is something over a megabyte,
there is no good reason to
have that on the main table.
It's going to interfere
with all of your searching.
Because when you think about how
a database has to be represented,
it's going to interfere
with all of your searching.
Each row is actually
going to be a structure.
It's going to be a record.
And in order to look at
any field in that record,
I'm going to have to
load the entire record.
And you can see where this is going,
because if I'm going to be
looking through a lot of different
records in order to find,
you know, the name of a song,
and I've got the blob that is the
song data sitting in that record,
I'm actually going to have to
load all of that song data in
order to look at the song titles.
Move that out.
Push that somewhere else.
Make it easy for me to look at the
titles of my songs by getting all of
the information that I don't need,
that the user is never
going to search on,
out of the main table.
So I'm going to do that.
We already know how the keys
are going to be set up for this,
so we don't need to see those.
Let's have a look at our model now.
Now we've gone here.
Song data is out.
It's now on the destination
of a one-to-one relationship.
Things are getting cleaner.
Of course, we're not done yet.
We have a bunch of other attributes
that I haven't even started to look at.
Like this column here,
the lyrics for each song.
Well, there's a few interesting things
to note about this column,
one of which is that, well,
A lot of the fields are empty.
And this brings us to nulls.
Null in your average
database is undefined.
It is not equal to
anything except itself,
and it is not not equal
to anything itself.
If I try and do a search
that says title in dare,
dare remix, and null,
your average database is never going
to return anything for that third hit.
You have to have to do special
queries to determine whether
or not something is null.
So having a null in a column is
really an excellent sign that
this is a good candidate for
being normalized off the table.
In this particular case,
I've kind of got a
special problem because,
well, when I envision the interface that
I'm putting on my application,
I see I've got, you know,
the song here and the length here.
And over here,
I've got a little badge that tells me
whether or not the song has lyrics.
So the user can click on
that and see the lyrics.
If I push that all off
into a separate table,
I'm going to have to go look at that
other table in order to decide whether
or not I want to put a badge there.
This is where denormalization comes in.
Denormalization is all
about pulling data in,
duplicating it in some way to
improve my locality of reference.
So instead of having to go both
to my main table and to a separate
table to look at lyrics to find out
whether I need to put a badge on,
I can just look at the main table.
Some common uses are for flags
or for derived attributes where
I may want to have multiple
copies for performance reasons.
So let's do that here.
Instead of having the lyrics
stored directly on that table,
I'm going to put just a badge there
saying whether or not there's lyrics,
and I'm going to have lyrics off in
their entirely separate table like this.
Gets the best of both worlds.
I've got the normalization
and move the data.
I don't particularly need to
search through all the time there.
And I still have information about
whether there is data or not.
So where next?
This is always an interesting thing.
Text is always interesting.
Let's go look at our lyrics
table in more detail.
Let's try and imagine the data
that could be in that table.
Well, here's the stuff we saw originally.
But there could be more in there.
More with interesting characteristics.
It's not all going to be the
case I'm expecting all the time.
Some of it may actually
be in foreign languages.
Why is this important?
Well,
For a couple of reasons,
because when your customers search,
they're going to be searching
in probably all lowercase,
and they want hits to come back,
whether you're camel case, lowercase,
uppercase.
They're not going to have
to want to type in accents.
They may not know how to type
in accents because they may
be using an English keyboard.
And there's other reasons,
like iHeart Unicode.
There's actually multiple
representations for certain characters.
E-accent aigu can be represented
both as a single character and as
a combining mark followed by an E.
It's a combining accent
aigu followed by an E.
And if you're doing simple
string matching in a database,
those are going to compare differently,
even though they represent
the same character.
This is especially bad
if you're doing regex,
because most regex engines are very,
very literal.
They'll take you at your word if
you say you want single character E.
So when you're doing searching,
and if you haven't
pre-canonicalized your database,
you may not get all the hits
because there may be representation
issues down in the database.
So something that's usually a really
good idea if you know you're going to
be searching on string data like this,
is to create a copy of
it and strip it out,
all of these little
impurities and annoyances.
Move it down into a canonical form,
strip out the diacritics, case fold it,
in one of those lovely
moments in computer science,
normalize it,
'cause we can always reuse the same
word for completely different concepts,
right?
So over here we see a canonicalized text
column that contains the information that
was in the other table in a form that's
going to be much more easily searchable.
You're much more quickly
searchable at that.
Whenever I do the search,
I'm just going to be able to
strip information out of what
the user's given me and pass that
directly down to the database,
rather than having to look
at every individual row,
transform the data there,
and then do a comparison.
Because over time that really
builds up as you normalize and
normalize and normalize and
normalize and normalize those
strings over and over and over again.
Just do it once up front,
never do it again.
So instead of just having
one attribute on our lyrics,
we're going to have two.
We're going to have text,
and we're going to have canonical text.
So now we're going to go off
and look at something else,
other things that can be interesting.
Artists.
Our album has an artist field.
But what is an artist?
Let's go look at this table here.
There's some interesting stuff in here.
Namely,
we've got some artists who are groups.
I seem to have completely lost
the thread of my presentation.
I'm leaping ahead.
We've got more duplicate data here.
And we already know what
to do with duplicate data.
Break it out,
move it into separate tables.
And I'm going to bring back the
primary and foreign keys at this point,
because I'm going to show
you how a many-to-many
relationship works in a database.
And this is really kind of tricky unless
you can actually see it happening.
So I've now got my relationship set up.
One artist, many albums.
Well,
except my iTunes library at least has
a lot of stuff that looks like this.
I mean, the original data set was chosen
specifically to fit on a slide,
but I've got more room here so
I can bring in some of my art,
more interesting music.
Like,
Albums that have multiple artists.
But we already saw on the earlier slide
that having multi-values is a bad idea.
So what do we do?
Well, we want to split those out,
give it two separate rows.
One for each artist.
Now we've got a problem because we
know we need to take our primary
key and store it in the foreign
key column on a separate table,
but now we're back to multi-values
because the artist's foreign
key already has a value there.
Now what do I do?
Well,
this is where more primary keys come in.
Add one to this table.
Break that artist primary key off,
put it in its own separate table,
Copy the artist foreign keys over there.
Copy the album keys here.
That's how a many-to-many
relationship looks.
You've actually got three tables at play.
And you can figure out
which songs are on,
or which artists put out
which albums by following from
He's over here.
From the artist table,
over to the correlation table,
and off from the correlation
table to the albums.
So whenever you do a query
in Core Data that goes across
a many-to-many relationship,
we actually have to write SQL to
handle this in the background.
That's going to be a little bit
slower than just looking up an
attribute on a single table.
So what have we done now?
Well, we had our artists,
and now we've broken it
out into a separate table.
But like I said earlier,
there's many right answers.
There's no particular reason
that that's a better way,
that this here is a better way,
better design of your model,
than this is.
In some ways,
this actually makes more sense.
Artists are more likely to collaborate
on individual songs than they are
to collaborate on entire albums.
So like I said, there's a play.
Depends on how you envision your data,
how you want your users
to interact with it.
And now we're back to
where I jumped ahead to.
But artists are kind of
interesting in another way.
Because if you look at this table,
you'll see that we've got
two kinds of artists here.
We've got groups,
and we've got individuals.
Individuals tend to have things like
birthdays that groups really don't have,
although they've got names.
If you look at groups, well,
they tend to have formation dates and
members in addition to their names.
And if you're familiar
with object modeling,
you've probably immediately thought,
well, I want my object model to
look something like this.
I'm going to put the name up
there on my parent entity and
have two sub-entities come,
or subclasses coming off it.
This is a pretty good instinct.
Entity relational modeling can
have inheritance in it as well.
It's very similar to object inheritance.
Although something important to notice
is that it does not need to reflect
your object inheritance hierarchy.
Just because your objects
in your model in memory are
in an inheritance hierarchy,
the data in the database does
not need to be stored that way.
You can actually have two entirely
separate inheritance hierarchies.
Core Data,
there's multiple ways to represent
inheritance in a database,
and Core Data has chosen to
do single table inheritance,
which means that for given
inheritance hierarchy,
all of the entities in that hierarchy
will be stored in a single table.
This is actually most efficient
for doing searches which could
potentially return values.
An invaluable session for developers
new to Core Data and for experienced
Core Data developers looking
to get the best performance
out of their application.
Melissa Turner
Got my artists,
and let's add those extra fields,
and let's populate them with some data.
And immediately you're going to
see something we discussed earlier.
Nulls.
We've got empty fields in the database,
up here and down here.
And in this particular case,
those fields can never have data in them.
A group is never going
to have a birthday,
an artist is never going
to have a formation date.
So nulls are bad and may
lead to normalization,
but on the other hand,
inheritance works this way.
Where do you balance it?
Well, a good way to tell how you
should be balancing it is by
looking at how your entities,
how your instances are going
to be used in your model.
In this particular case,
I've got the artist's relationship,
which is going to want to return
a heterogeneous collection.
Artist is going to want to return
both songs and individuals.
I'm not going to need
to care or want to care.
I'm going to go ahead and add that
inheritance hierarchy to my model.
But, you know,
there's potential for other things
that could have shared information,
like I could go through and add a
notes field to all of my entities.
And, well, it's a notes field.
It's going to be serving the
exact same purpose in every
single one of those entities.
But really,
it doesn't make sense because apart
from the fact that it's notes,
it's called notes.
There's no shared behavior or
shared real state across all of
the disparate entities in my model.
And most importantly,
there's no place in the model where
it's important to return instances of
all of those entities at the same time.
So I'm just going to leave these
and leave with a final thought,
which is that if you ever realize that
you've built a model where everything
is in one inheritance hierarchy,
that means you're putting all
of your data in a single table.
And that means you've
probably done something wrong,
unless you've only got one entity,
if you've only got one table.
That's not good.
So that actually covers most
of what you need to know,
the basics of data modeling.
From here on in,
it becomes just a lot of trial and error
and trying to develop instincts for,
you know, what's good,
what's not so good,
when you need to use normalization,
when you need to use denormalization,
and how to best balance the
competing needs for your application.
There's a few other things that
are down in the database layer
that we're going to talk about.
First of which is indices.
An index,
as you might guess from the name,
is a quick way to look up information.
Sort of like an index in a book.
Tradeoffs with setting up --
you set up an index either on a
column or a collection of columns.
And you can -- from the index,
you can basically look at a value,
find a value in that,
and quickly move to the row in the
table that's associated with that value.
There's tradeoffs,
both in speed and in space.
The first tradeoff is that
Indexes aren't free.
You have to actually maintain them
when you change data in the table.
It's no good if my index
contains stale information.
So every time I change
a row in the table,
every time I add a row,
every time I delete a row,
I'm going to have to go
off and update the index.
If I've got an application
that's used 95% of the time for
writing data to the database,
I don't need an index.
I probably don't want to spend the
time updating my indexes regularly.
And there's also a size tradeoff.
Indexes don't come for free space-wise.
I need to store them somewhere,
and that's on disk.
It's going to increase
the size of your database.
If I've got an application that's
being used 95% of the time to
do reads and the customer is
constantly querying and searching on,
that may be a worthwhile tradeoff.
It probably is a worthwhile tradeoff.
It will really speed
up their data access,
but it will increase
the size of your file.
So, again, you have the tension.
Size, speed, customer performance.
One thing to note in SQLite is
that the indices are binary only,
so you don't get fancy substring
searching or text comparisons.
It's going to be purely equal to,
greater than, or less than.
How do you decide or how do you
tell Core Data that you want an
index on a particular column?
Well, in the modeling tool,
it's up here in the model inspector.
In the attribute inspector,
you can just go up and there's a
field that allows you to tick it.
And if you check that checkbox,
Core Data will create an
index on that column for you.
Relationships.
Well, you've seen what they
look like in the database.
And that may have made you think,
and I have alluded to the fact,
that there can be performance
issues with relationships.
If you're doing a lot of
searching across them,
or if you're deleting an object,
for example.
Deletion is a really excellent example.
We've got primary keys living
on one table and foreign
keys living on another table.
In order to delete an
object on the source table,
the one with the primary key,
I'm going to have to go through
and clean up all references in the
foreign key column in the other table.
This is why Core Data has to load
managed objects in order to propagate
deletes from an object being deleted
to an object it's related to.
We need to do that cleanup,
and the only way we can do that
is by loading objects into memory.
You can do unidirectional relationships.
If you try this,
the modeling tool will warn you.
It's kind of an advanced feature.
And be warned, if you try and do this,
there are some very specific
cases in which it makes sense,
but you have to be really,
really careful because we won't know
how to go clean up the information at
the other end of that relationship.
And that introduces the possibility of a
data integrity problem in your database.
If you don't do the cleanup,
then at some point you
may load an object,
try and follow a relationship,
and discover that the object
at the other end of that
relationship isn't there anymore.
Other things to think about.
Data set management.
Try and minimize the number of objects
you're having to load into memory.
Minimize your working set.
Think about your where clause ordering.
It's sort of related
to data set management,
only data sets in the database.
What do I mean by that?
Well, here's a hybridized,
here's pseudocode for a select.
I want to select songs where
the lyrics text contains you
and the title is like dare,
case and die critic insensitive,
and the rating is equal to five.
If I just pass that down to
the database the way it is,
what happens?
Well, here's my three predicates.
And let's look at the join.
First, I'm going to go through and
look at my lyrics table.
And I'm going to go look for all
lyrics that contain the word you
or contain the substring you.
I'm going to find four of them.
And then I'm going to go join
those with the songs table.
And then I'm going to go look for
all the lyrics that contain the word
you or contain the substring you.
and find all of the songs
whose title is like dare,
which is two songs.
And then I'm going to go off
and look at the ratings and find
out that there's only one song
It has you in the lyrics, title is Dare,
and the rating is 5.
That doesn't look too bad,
but really it's kind of completely nasty,
because I've front-loaded
all of the really heavy work.
I've done a regex table scan across
the lyrics table as my first operation.
I've done substring matching
across my second operation,
and I've done my integer
comparisons last.
Let's invert those for a second.
Let's do the ratings first.
There's only two potential songs
I'm ever going to have to look at,
because there's only two
songs with rating five.
Well, only one of those songs
has the title there.
At which point,
I only have to do one regex
search to discover whether or
not the lyrics meet my criteria.
This is going to be a much
faster responding application
than one going the other way,
because, well,
the first one has to do a lot more work.
And that's something to think about
when you're building your where clauses.
Minimize the amount of work you
can do by front-loading your
predicates with integer comparisons,
particularly attributes that
are on the source table.
And only after you've
passed through that,
start following relationships and
doing heavier text comparisons.
Your users will thank you.
[Transcript missing]
There's no particular reason that
just because you use one technology,
you're bound to do everything
in that technology.
Pick the best of both worlds.
Let the database do what it's good at.
Let another technology
do what it's good at.
Hybridize.
Store object URIs in whatever
the external store is,
or URIs out to paths in the file system.
Let everybody be happy.
Let everybody be efficient.
Sometimes you've got data
coming from multiple places.
You can actually have one
model with many configurations.
The configurations are set on
the panel that I believe has
the wrench in the modeling tool.
This allows you to direct specific
entities to specific stores.
For example, you can have some public
data in one store,
private data in another store.
Again, you end up using URIs to do
cross-store relationships,
but it allows you to partition your
data sometimes more efficiently and
allows you to use multiple stores
with relationships between them.
Once you've got everything set up,
you need to find out if you've
got the best performance,
you know, find out if there's any
performance gotchas and widgets.
Miguel talked in his last session,
in the last session,
which unfortunately you've
missed and will need to catch
on video when it's released,
about debugging your application
and using instruments to determine,
you know, if you're hitting the database
too often or not enough,
or if you're loading too much data.
Here's where you would start.
Turn on the com.apple/cordea/sqldebug
flag that will tell you when
you're hitting the database,
what kind of queries you're
doing against the database,
how much data you're pulling
back and how long it's taken.
That'll allow you sort of
an entree into figuring out,
you know, what you might be able
to do to tweak things.
If you realize you're loading
lots and lots of one record,
or if you're loading one record
as the result of a lot of queries,
you may be able to batch that.
There's also the core data instruments in
instruments that allow you to get a sense
of when you're hitting the database,
where you're spending all of
your time in your application.
So we've gone through how model design
affects application performance,
or at least I've told you that it does,
and you'll have to take my word for
it and play with it a little bit.
We've talked about normalization
and denormalization,
competing strategies that
sort of allow you to move data
around in your data model,
try and figure out how to best
make your data model suit the
needs of your application.
I'll give you a few tips about
things that you can also do to help
improve performance that aren't
directly related to the schema,
but
That are down at the
database layer as well.
And I believe at this
point I go off into the,
for more information,
talk to these people.
Michael Jurowicz,
who is the developer tools evangelist.
There's the Cocoa Dev mailing
list is an excellent place to get
answers about technical questions.
And talk to us people.
If there's something you don't
understand in our documentation,
if you find a bug in our technology,
if there's just a feature you really,
really want, I think that would be
really cool in Core Data.
We can't read minds,
especially we can't read minds of
people we don't know at a distance.
bugreporter.apple.com.
Send us radar reports, send us emails,
let us know what you're thinking.
A great place to start
learning about Core Data,
get lots and lots of details,
is the Core Data documentation
on developer.apple.com.
Wikipedia actually has an excellent
article on relational databases
and some links off to things like
normalization and denormalization.
It will give you a bit more depth,
a bit more understanding,
help you go further in the
field than I can give you
in a one hour long session.
And if you're going off and having
to write your own SQL database,
for whatever reason
Core Data doesn't work for you,
you need cross platform.
You need to do cross-platform
solution or whatever have you.
I highly recommend the
SQL Practical Guide for
Developers by Donahue and Spiegel.
It's a great hands-on book full of
lots of examples about what SQL looks
like for doing all kinds of queries.
It's been immensely
useful over the years.
As I said earlier,
you've kind of missed our other sessions.
You'll have to catch them on video.
We had a what's new in
Core Data for Snow Leopard
and Core Data tips and tricks.
But what you haven't
missed is the lab tomorrow.
If you're a Core Data developer
and you've got questions,
if you're thinking about using Core Data,
you've got questions,
we'll be in the OS X lab tomorrow,
from two until six,
if I remember correctly,
before we run off and get drunk.
And we'll be happy to
answer your questions.
The entire Core Data team will be there.
Come see us.